cl<!-- {
  "type": "page",
  "title": "About",
  "doi": ""
  "authors": ["Graham"], 
  "tags": ["about"],
  "date": "July 15, 2015",
  "thumbnail": "https://getuikit.com/v2/docs/images/placeholder_600x400.svg"
} -->

# Allice Lab

The Alice lab for Computational Worldmaking develops transferable knowledge and creative coding technology as well as intensifying computationally literate art practice in the construction of responsive artificial worlds experienced through rapidly emerging mixed/hybrid reality technologies including both Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR). Inspired by the creativity of nature, its research-creation program leverages strong simulation and the self-modifying capacity of computational media to create artificial worlds whose rules can be rewritten while participants interact within them, pioneering heightened levels of human-machine interaction and intensified aesthetic experience through meaningful engagement using the whole body. Cutting across work in generative art, computer graphics, human-computer interaction, artificial life, complex systems and compiler technology, this research program reinforces influential work at York in augmented reality, computer vision, stereoscopic cinema and ubiquitous screens, and results in transferable research, open-source tools, and novel creative works.

It is directed by Graham Wakefield, Associate Professor appointed to the Department of Computational Arts and the Department of Visual Art and Art History in the School of the Arts, Media, Performance, and Design (AMPD), and a Canada Research Chair (Tier II) in interactive information visualization at York University, Toronto, Canada. Wakefield's art installations have been exhibited at leading international museums and peer-reviewed events in areas of digital media, computation and culture, including ZKM Karlsruhe, La Gaite Lyrique Paris, and SIGGRAPH, and have attained national and international awards including VIDA, the premier art & artificial life competition (2014). He was previously an integral researcher at the AlloSphere, a unique 3-stoqrey spherical multi-user virtual reality instrument, UC Santa Barbara 2007-2012, creating multi-screen artworks and scientific visualizations, and software infrastructure for worldmaking that not only forms the foundation for most projects in the AlloSphere today, but is also widely used beyond including by internationally-renowned artists. He is also co-author of a framework for creative coding (Gen for Max/MSP, 2011) which now has tens of thousands of users, and is used by industrial design labs and incorporated into courses at several major universities. At York he is also a member of The Centre for Vision Research and Sensorium organized research units. The computational worldmaking lab continues the research-creation activity from Dr. Wakefield's former position at the Graduate School of Culture Technology, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Korea.